+++
date = "2011-08-31"
tags =   ["work", "startup"]
categories = ["blog"]
topics = ["blog"]
slug =   "ill-never-work-for-a-big-company-again"
url = "blog/2011/08/ill-never-work-for-a-big-company-again/"
title = "I'll never work for a big company again"
+++

I recently had my 3 year anniversary at [CashStar](http://CashStar.com),
and it got me thinking about how fast the last 3 years have gone. When I
first started at CashStar there were only a handful of people, and we
had nothing, and it was great. We had no products, no customers, which
might sound bad at first, but we also didn't have any customer, or
production support issues to slow us down. We could go into work and put
in 8 really productive hours, and feel good about yourself when you left
that day.

Over time, we built our products and signed customers, and slowly over
time the company grew to the size we are today, which is around 50
people. I'm no where as productive as I was when we started, I'm lucky
if I can sit at my desk for an hour a day. If I need to get anything
done I normally do it at night or on the weekend, which means I end up
working a ton of hours in order to get the same productivity level I had
when we first started.

The funny thing is, even with all of these distractions, I'm still much
more productive then I ever was when I worked for a big company. Working
for a big company felt like I was walking, working for a startup makes
you feel like you are running in comparison.

In my past I have worked for companies that had 10,000, 2,500 and 800
people respectively. Even though they are very different in size, they
all felt like a big company. The more I think about it, the more I
realize that I don't think I could ever work for a big company again.
Working for a big company has a different feel to it, and you normally
have to worry about office politics and other things that you don't have
to worry about in a small company. It can be very painful at times when
you want to get something done at a big company and you can't.

I have worked at a few big companies and I have worked with people at
other big companies for a while, and one thing I noticed a while ago, is
that there are some really smart people working at big companies and
there are also some dumb people who work at big companies. You don't see
many dumb people at small companies, mainly because there is no place to
hide. In a small company you need to carry your own weight, and if you
don't it is pretty obvious. In a large company it isn't as obvious to
find the slacker.

I always wondered why the big companies hired the dumb people, and i
think I came up with a theory. Basically it boils down to this. When you
are a small company you don't have that much work, so you can get by
with less people. When you have less people to hire, you want to make
sure you get the best of the best, the top 1%. So you wait until great
people come along, and you hire those.

So you only hire great people, and things are going well, and the
company grows. Eventually you will get to the point where you now have
all the great people in the local area working at your company. You have
a choice to make, you can either lower your standards a little or you
can start importing people from other areas, which will cost more money.
If you are really successful you can afford to import great talent from
all over. Most likely you can't do that, so you lower your standards a
little, and you keep growing. As your company gets bigger and bigger
eventually you have lowered your standards enough where the occasional
dummy will sneak in, and once one dummy gets in, it is all over.

The other side of the coin is that as you get bigger, the company needs
to add structure and process to control all of the less then great
people, which makes it less fun for the great people, who start to leave
the company. Most companies don't mind at this point because all of the
products that the great people have built are already finished, so they
just need to be maintained, and they can do that with cheaper (not as
smart or experienced) people. The managers in charge of these products
look like heros because they saved some money on their budget due to the
lower salaries, and they get promoted. It is just a matter of time
before the company slows to a crawl and stops being productive.

Now of course what I'm saying is a little over dramatic, and not all big
companies are like this, but there is some truth to what I'm saying, and
if you ever worked at a big company or with a big company, you know what
I'm talking about. I'm not saying that only dummies work in big
companies, because if that were true those companies would go out of
business very quickly. I know a lot of really smart people who work at
big companies, and they are happy.

Now that I say I would never want to work for a big company again, I
guess there would need to be a handful of exceptions to the rule. Here
is my list of big companies I might want to work for and my reasons. Of
course I reserve the right to change my mind if the right company comes
along, with the right opportunity.

[Amazon](http://amazon.com) - They aren't just an e-commerce company,
they are actually a technology company as well. They have built their
own products (kindle) and have their own services (AWS). They are
innovators and trend setters and that sounds like a cool company to work
for.

[Netflix](http://netflix.com) - They revolutionized the movie rental
market, and are now the leaders in streaming movies. They handle
something around [30% of all internet
traffic](http://www.worldtvpc.com/blog/netflix-traffic-overtakes-web-surfers/)
on a given night, which is unreal. I have also heard they also have
[great
benefits](http://www.slideshare.net/reed2001/culture-1798664?src=embed).

[Apple](http://apple.com) - Probably the best product company in the
last 100 years. They make cool stuff, that everyone loves. I'm sure they
work you hard to get everything perfect, but to be able to say I helped
built that new gizmo that someone was using, would be priceless.

[ESPN](http://espn.com) - I love sports, I love everything about them,
working at ESPN would be a dream job.

[RackSpace](http://rackspace.com) - Even though they are hosting
company, they are a trend setting hosting company and they are building
products as well. They are driving force behind OpenStack, and they have
some really cool cloud server products as well. The whole company looks
like it would be fun to work at.

I'm sure there are a few more companies that I missed, if I remember I
will be sure to update this post. Leave a comment with the big company
you wouldn't mind working for, and why, and see if you can convince me
to add it to my list.
